[WIP] Update spec doc for GroupController service (#545)
container-storage-interface/spec: spec.md

|                                                 |
|  +------------+           +------------------+  |
|  |     CO     |   gRPC    |   Controller     |  |
|  |            +--+-------->     Plugin       |  |
|  +------------+  |        +------------------+  |
|                  |                              |
|                  |        +------------------+  |
|                  |        | Group Controller |  |
|                  +-------->     Plugin       |  |
|                           +------------------+  |
|                                                 |
+-------------------------------------------------+

                                  CO "Node" Host(s)
+-------------------------------------------------+
|                                                 |
|  +------------+           +------------------+  |
|  |     CO     |   gRPC    |       Node       |  |
|  |            +----------->      Plugin      |  |
|  +------------+           +------------------+  |
|                                                 |
+-------------------------------------------------+

Figure 1: The Plugin runs on all nodes in the cluster: a centralized

> Controller Plugin and Group Controller Plugin (optional) are available

Reviewer: "Control Plugin" is also optional.
I'd suggest change "(optional)" to "(alpha)".

> Controller Plugin (alpha) and Group Controller Plugin (alpha) are available

Author: Hi @xing-yang do you mean like this?

https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/pull/545#discussion_r1235745577

```suggestion
Controller Plugin (optional) and Group Controller Plugin (alpha) are available
```

CO Nodes.
```

```
                                  CO "Node" Host(s)
+-------------------------------------------------+
|                                                 |
|                           +------------------+  |
|                           |      Node        |  |
|                  +-------->     Plugin       |  |
|                  |        +------------------+  |
|                  |                              |
|  +------------+  |        +------------------+  |
|  |     CO     |  |gRPC    |   Controller     |  |
|  |            +----------->     Plugin       |  |
|  +------------+  |        +------------------+  |
|                  |                              |
|                  |        +------------------+  |
|                  |        | Group Controller |  |
|                  +-------->     Plugin       |  |
|                           +------------------+  |
|                                                 |
+-------------------------------------------------+

Figure 2: Headless Plugin deployment, only the CO Node hosts run
Plugins. Separate, split-component Plugins supply the Node Service,

> the Controller Service and the Group Controller Service (Optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Controller Service and the Group Controller Service (optional)
```

> the Controller Service and the Group Controller Service (optional)

Reviewer: optional -> alpha

respectively.
```

```
                                  CO "Node" Host(s)
+-------------------------------------------------+
|                                                 |
|                           +------------------+  |
|  +------------+           |      Node        |  |
|  |     CO     |   gRPC    |   Controller     |  |
|  |            +-----------> Group Controller |  |
|  +------------+           |     Plugin       |  |
|                           +------------------+  |
|                                                 |
+-------------------------------------------------+

Figure 3: Headless Plugin deployment, only the CO Node hosts run
Plugins. A unified Plugin component supplies both the Node Service,

> the Controller Service and the Group Controller Service (optional).

Reviewer: optional -> alpha

```

```
                                  CO "Node" Host(s)
+-------------------------------------------------+
|                                                 |
|  +------------+           +------------------+  |
|  |     CO     |   gRPC    |       Node       |  |
|  |            +----------->      Plugin      |  |
|  +------------+           +------------------+  |
|                                                 |

> +-------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: Is it necessary to update this drawing?

Author: No, this change is only for the unified width as same as the other in this chapter.

* **Node Plugin**: A gRPC endpoint serving CSI RPCs that MUST be run on the Node whereupon an SP-provisioned volume will be published.
* **Controller Plugin**: A gRPC endpoint serving CSI RPCs that MAY be run anywhere.

Each SP MAY provide:

> - **GroupController Plugin**: A gRPC endpoint serving CSI RPCs that MAY be run anywhere.

Author: Hi @xing-yang,  Is the `GroupController plugin` optional or required for a SP?

Reviewer: It is optional.

Author: thanks

> In some circumstances a single gRPC endpoint MAY serve all CSI RPCs (see Figure 3 in [Architecture](#architecture)).

Author: I'll update related figures in Architecture.

### RPC Interface

A CO interacts with an Plugin through RPCs.

> Each SP MAY provide:

Reviewer: Node plugin is a MUST have.

* **Node Plugin**: A gRPC endpoint serving CSI RPCs that MUST be run on the Node whereupon an SP-provisioned volume will be published.
* **Controller Plugin**: A gRPC endpoint serving CSI RPCs that MAY be run anywhere.

> Each SP MAY provide:

Reviewer: Line 284 is duplicate of line 279.

}
```

There are four sets of RPCs:

> * **Identity Service**: Both the Controller Plugin, the Group Controller Plugin and the Node Plugin MUST implement this sets of RPCs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Identity Service**: Every Controller Plugin, Group Controller Plugin and Node Plugin MUST implement this sets of RPCs.
```

| Snapshot list mismatch | 3 INVALID_ARGUMENT | Besides the general cases, this code SHOULD also be used to indicate when plugin supporting CREATE_DELETE_GET_VOLUME_GROUP_SNAPSHOT detects a mismatch in the `snapshot_ids`. | If a mismatch is detected in the `snapshot_ids`, caller SHOULD use different `snapshot_ids`. |
| Volume group snapshot does not exist | 5 NOT_FOUND | Indicates that a volume group snapshot corresponding to the specified `group_snapshot_id` does not exist. | Caller MUST verify that the `group_snapshot_id` is correct and that the volume group snapshot is accessible and has not been deleted before retrying with exponential back off. |

#### RPC Interactions

##### `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot`

> The plugin-generated `group_snapshot_id` and `source_volume_ids` are a REQUIRED field for both the `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC and the `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot` PRC, as opposed to the CO-generated group snapshot `name` that is REQUIRED for the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC and the CO-generated volume  `name` that is REQUIRED for the `CreateVolume` RPC.

Reviewer: `group_snapshot_id` and `snapshot_ids` are REQUIRED.
Also there's no need to mention `CreateVolume` here.

| Snapshot list mismatch | 3 INVALID_ARGUMENT | Besides the general cases, this code SHOULD also be used to indicate when plugin supporting CREATE_DELETE_GET_VOLUME_GROUP_SNAPSHOT detects a mismatch in the `snapshot_ids`. | If a mismatch is detected in the `snapshot_ids`, caller SHOULD use different `snapshot_ids`. |
| Volume group snapshot does not exist | 5 NOT_FOUND | Indicates that a volume group snapshot corresponding to the specified `group_snapshot_id` does not exist. | Caller MUST verify that the `group_snapshot_id` is correct and that the volume group snapshot is accessible and has not been deleted before retrying with exponential back off. |

#### RPC Interactions

##### `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot`

> The plugin-generated `group_snapshot_id` is a REQUIRED field for both the `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC and the `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot` PRC, as opposed to the CO-generated snapshot `name` that is REQUIRED for the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC.

Reviewer: snapshot_ids is also REQUIRED.

Author: do you mean that source_volume_ids is also REQUIRED?

| Volume group snapshot does not exist | 5 NOT_FOUND | Indicates that a volume group snapshot corresponding to the specified `group_snapshot_id` does not exist. | Caller MUST verify that the `group_snapshot_id` is correct and that the volume group snapshot is accessible and has not been deleted before retrying with exponential back off. |

#### RPC Interactions

##### `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`, `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot`

The plugin-generated `group_snapshot_id` and `snapshot_ids` are a REQUIRED field for both the `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC and the `GetVolumeGroupSnapshot` PRC.

A `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` operation SHOULD return with a `group_snapshot_id` when the group snapshot is cut successfully. If a `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` operation times out before the group snapshot is cut, leaving the CO without an ID with which to reference a group snapshot, and the CO also decides that it no longer needs/wants the group snapshot in question then the CO MAY choose one of the following paths:

> 1. Retry the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC to possibly obtain a group snapshot ID that may be used to execute a `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC; upon success execute `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`. If the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.

Author: If the implementation of the SP's group snapshot function is flawed, for example, if two data volumes are snapshotted at the same time, one will succeed and the other will always fail, then no matter how many times CO retries the call, it will not get the expected results. It maybe lead to a deadlock in CO. But in the spec, I can't find a suitable status code to tell CO not to retry.

> 1. Retry the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC to possibly obtain a group snapshot ID that may be used to execute a `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC; upon success execute `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`. If the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.

Author: If we can assume that the SP implementation can handle the above situation, then the following description is not needed.

```
If the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.
```

> 1. Retry the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC to possibly obtain a group snapshot ID that may be used to execute a `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC; upon success execute `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`. If the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.

Reviewer: How do we mark a snapshot as "broken" or "partial"?  Currently we don't have a way to do that and communicate back to CO.

> 1. Retry the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC to possibly obtain a group snapshot ID that may be used to execute a `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC; upon success execute `DeleteVolumeGroupSnapshot`. If the `CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot` RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.

Author: @bswartz @xing-yang 

I drop the sentence `If the CreateVolumeGroupSnapshot RPC returns a server-side gRPC error, it means that SP do clean up and make sure no snapshots are leaked.` and open an issue https://github.com/container-storage-interface/spec/issues/554 to track it.

> 2. The CO takes no further action regarding the timed out RPC, a group snapshot is possibly leaked and the operator/user is expected to clean up.

Reviewer 3: Per @bswartz and @xing-yang - It is not possible to tell k8s partial completion. And if partial completion, it is SP responsibility to clean up. It's all or nothing, if it's not all, SP must clean up.

> 2. The CO takes no further action regarding the timed out RPC, a group snapshot is possibly leaked and the operator/user is expected to clean up. But this way isn't considered as a good practice.

Reviewer 4: This is bad guidance, and we can't recommend this in the spec. We need to be clear about what the CO must do and what is optional, and for optional things, how the SP can ensure correct behavior under either option.

Author: There is a similar expression in the spec.

The following content is excerpted from PRC interactions of the controller service. 

```
2. The CO takes no further action regarding the timed out RPC, a snapshot is possibly leaked 
and the operator/user is expected to clean up.
```

Reviewer 4: Thanks for pointing this out. We should probably clean up the language for volume snapshots too. It should be fine to duplicate the existing language from volume snapshots to group snapshots. I just want to make sure the language we're copying it up to date and accurate.

Reviewer: Agreed that this sentence regarding volume snapshot should be updated. SP should clean up the snapshot in this case.
